Add log attribute limit configuration (#2861)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/logs/sdk.md

that was added to the `LogRecord` (as with
[ReadableLogRecord](#readablelogrecord)).

## LogRecord Limits

`LogRecord` attributes MUST adhere to the [common rules of attribute limits](../common/README.md#attribute-limits).

If the SDK implements attribute limits it MUST provide a way to change these
limits, via a configuration to the `LoggerProvider`, by allowing users to
configure individual limits like in the Java example below.

The options MAY be bundled in a class, which then SHOULD be called
`LogRecordLimits`.

```java
public interface LogRecordLimits {
  public int getAttributeCountLimit();

  public int getAttributeValueLengthLimit();
}
```

**Configurable parameters:**

* [all common options applicable to attributes](../common/README.md#configurable-parameters)

There SHOULD be a message printed in the SDK's log to indicate to the user
that an attribute was discarded due to such a limit.

> To prevent excessive logging, the message should not be printed once per

Reviewer: This wording seems backwards, and reads as a suggestion, perhaps re-phrase slightly.

There SHOULD be a message printed in the SDK's log to indicate that an attribute was discarded due to such limit. This message MUST NOT be repeated for every `LogRecord` or discarded attribute.

Author: > This wording seems backwards, and reads as a suggestion, perhaps re-phrase slightly.

I completely agree. We have a nearly identical statement in the trace SDK spec

https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/094fe9f34bc2fdb9797c4437c6062dcf61760de0/specification/trace/sdk.md?plain=1#L415-L417

Previously, I had changed the wording both here and in the trace SDK spec to make it more clear, but per this conversation https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/2861#discussion_r1073937079, I simply adopted the abysmal wording of the trace spec and will address both together in a separate PR.

that was added to the `LogRecord` (as with
[ReadableLogRecord](#readablelogrecord)).

## LogRecord Limits

> `LogRecord` attributes MUST adhere to the [common rules of attribute limits](../common/README.md#attribute-limits).

Reviewer 2: Do we need rules that address how to handle nested attributes? For example, how many attributes is this?

```json
"attributes": {
  "foo": "bar",
  "one_or_many": {
    "nested": {
      "a": "b",
      "c": "d"
    },
    "also_nested": "e"
  }
}
```

Author: Good question. I had previously assumed that the attributes for log records followed the [common definition of attributes](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/tree/main/specification/common#attribute)

Though, the [log data model spec](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/logs/data-model.md#type-any) _does_ seem to suggest your example is a valid log record attribute. It even seems to suggest that resource attributes for a log record could be nested... this raises my eyebrows a bit 🤨.

Is this really intended? I'll bring to the log SIG this week.

Author: I knew that the OTLP data model supported nested attribute, but I guess I was not aware that the spec's log data model supported them. Also just discovered https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/2620.

Here's what I propose. This PR addresses all the supported types that log records have in common with traces, metrics, etc. I think separate from this PR, rules of attribute limits should be defined for nested attributes. I can imagine other configuration settings that may uniquely be useful for nested attributes like a depth limit.

Reviewer: I've also been attempting to clarify this and the eariler iterations of this PR #2620 had wording around having a "maximum" depth and I think this one #2888 is also related

Reviewer 2: > Here's what I propose. This PR addresses all the supported types that log records have in common with traces, metrics, etc. I think separate from this PR, rules of attribute limits should be defined for nested attributes. I can imagine other configuration settings that may uniquely be useful for nested attributes like a depth limit.

No objections from me.

If the SDK implements attribute limits it MUST provide a way to change these
limits, via a configuration to the `LoggerProvider`, by allowing users to
configure individual limits like in the Java example below.

The options MAY be bundled in a class, which then SHOULD be called
`LogRecordLimits`.

```java
public final class LogRecordLimits {
  LogRecordLimits(int attributeCountLimit, int attributeValueLengthLimit);

  public int getAttributeCountLimit();

  public int getAttributeValueLengthLimit();
}
```

**Configurable parameters:**

* [all common options applicable to attributes](../common/README.md#configurable-parameters)

> There SHOULD be a log emitted to indicate to the user that an attribute was
> discarded due to such a limit. To prevent excessive logging, the log
> should be emitted at most once per log record (i.e., not per discarded
> attribute.)

Reviewer 3: It might be a bit confusing that we're talking about two entirely different kinds of logs or log streams here. One could interpret "emit a log" as "create/export a log record".

How about something like this to clarify it?

```suggestion
There SHOULD be a message printed in the SDK's log to indicate to the user
that an attribute was discarded due to such a limit.
To prevent excessive logging, the message should be printed at most once per
`LogRecord` (i.e., not per discarded attribute.)
```

This slightly diverges from what we have in the trace spec but has the meaning, so I think it should be fine, but we can also update the trace spec accordingly.
